South Korea — Enforcement Decree of the Bioethics and Safety Act

Article 1 (Purpose)

Article 2 (Meetings of the National Bioethics Committee)

(1) The chairperson of the National Bioethics Committee (hereinafter referred to as the "National Committee") established under Article 7 (1) of the Bioethics and Safety Act (hereinafter referred to as the "Act") shall convene a meeting of the National Committee, in any of the following cases:

1. Where the President requests the convocation of a meeting;

2. Where at least 1/3 of all incumbent members of the National Committee request the convocation of a meeting;

3. Where the chairperson of the National Committee deems it necessary to convene a meeting.

(2) Where convening a meeting, the chairperson of the National Committee shall notify the members of the National Committee of the date, time, venue, and agenda items of a meeting until seven days before it is held; provided, where there exists any inevitable cause, such as an urgent matter for deliberation, the chairperson may give notice to the members of the National Committee until the day immediately before the meeting is held.

(3) Resolution by a meeting of the National Committee shall require the attendance of a majority of all incumbent members and consent from a majority of those present.

(4) If deemed necessary for deliberation, the chairperson of the National Committee may request the chairperson of a specialized committee under Article 3 or a member thereof to attend a meeting.

Article 2-2 (Dismissal of members of the National Committee)

1. Where a member becomes unable to conduct his or her duties due to a mental or physical disability;

2. Where a member commits a misdeed in connection with his or her duties;

3. Where a member is recognized to be unsuitable to be a member due to neglect of duties, injury to dignity, or other grounds;

4. Where a member himself or herself expresses that he or she has difficulties in conducting his or her duties.

Article 3 (Establishment and functions of specialized committees)

(1) The following specialized committees by field shall be established under the National Committee pursuant to Article 9 (1) of the Act:

1. Specialized Committee on Bioethics and Safety Policy: Deliberation on human subjects research, policies on bioethics and safety, and other matters not subject to deliberation by any other specialized committee;

2. Specialized Committee on Embryos: Deliberation on matters concerning the production and management of embryos, the use and research of residual embryos, residual eggs, somatic-cell cloning embryos, etc. (referring to somatic-cell cloning embryos, etc. under Article 20 (1) of the Act), or the use, etc. of embryonic stem cell lines;

3. Specialized Committee on Human Materials: Deliberation on human materials research and exemption from such deliberation, and deliberation on matters concerning Human Material Banks;

4. Specialized Committee on Genes: Deliberation on matters concerning genetic tests, gene therapies, etc.;

5. Specialized Committee on the Protection of Human Subjects: Deliberation on matters concerning the protection of human subjects, the affairs of institutional review boards under Article 10 (1) of the Act (hereinafter referred to as "institutional committees"), and the affairs of joint institutional bioethics committees under Article 12 of the Act;

6. Ad Hoc Specialized Committee: Deliberation on matters concerning any particular field by that committee established by the chairperson of the National Committee by a resolution thereof, which is to exist for a limited time only.

(2) Specialized committees shall deliberate on any matters referred to a meeting thereof by the National Committee based on their relevant fields or any matters they deem necessary to be referred to a meeting thereof; and the chairpersons thereof shall report the results of deliberation to the National Committee.

Article 4 (Composition of specialized committees)

(1) Each specialized committee shall be comprised of at least five, but not more than seven members, including one chairperson and one vice-chairperson.

(2) The members of each specialized committee shall be the following persons, and shall include at least 1 person referred to in each subparagraph: <Amended on Mar. 23, 2013; Nov. 19, 2014; Jul. 26, 2017; Oct. 1, 2025>

1. Persons appointed by the Minister of Health and Welfare upon the recommendation of the head of the relevant Ministry, from among public officials in general service of Grade IV or higher or members of the Senior Executive Service of the Ministry of Science and ICT, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Resources, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, or the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family;

2. Persons commissioned by the Minister of Health and Welfare, after consultation with the Minister of Science and ICT, from among those who have abundant professional knowledge and research experience in the field of biological science, medical science, or social science;

3. Persons commissioned by the Minister of Health and Welfare, from among those engaged in judicial circles, ethical circles, religious circles, civic groups (referring to non-profit, non-governmental organizations defined in Article 2 of the Assistance for Non-Profit, Non-Governmental Organizations Act), or women’s organizations.

(3) The chairperson of each specialized committee shall be elected from among and by the members thereof, and the vice-chairperson of each specialized committee shall be designated by the chairperson thereof.

(4) The members commissioned pursuant to paragraph (2) shall hold office for a term of three years and may be commissioned consecutively for future terms; provided, the term of office of the members who are public officials shall coincide with the term of their official positions.

(5) If a vacancy occurs in the office of a member, a member for filling a vacancy shall be commissioned, and the term of office of a newly commissioned member shall be the remainder of his or her predecessor’s term of office.

(6) Each specialized committee shall have one secretary, who shall be designated by the Minister of Health and Welfare from among the relevant public officials.

Article 5 (Operation of specialized committees)

(1) The chairperson of the relevant specialized committee shall convene a meeting, in any of the following cases:

1. Where the chairperson of the National Committee requests the convocation of a meeting;

2. Where at least 1/3 of all incumbent members of the relevant specialized committee request the convocation of a meeting;

3. Where the chairperson of the relevant specialized committee deems it necessary to convene a meeting.

(2) If deemed necessary for deliberation, a specialized committee may request any relevant expert, etc. to make an appearance at the said committee to hear his or her opinions.

Article 5-2 (Dismissal of members of specialized committees)

1. Where a member becomes unable to conduct his or her duties due to a mental or physical disability;

2. Where a member commits a misdeed in connection with his or her duties;

3. Where a member is recognized to be unsuitable to be a member due to neglect of duties, injury to dignity, or other grounds;

4. Where a member himself or herself expresses that he or she has difficulties in conducting his or her duties.

Article 6 (Allowances and travel expenses)

Article 7 (Request for cooperation of relevant agencies)

Article 8 (Holding of public hearings)

Article 9 (Operating rules)

Article 10 (Standards for evaluation and certification of institutional committees)

(1) The standards for certification of institutional committees under Article 14 (1) of the Act shall include the following:

1. Propriety of deliberations by institutional committees on matters falling under the items of Article 10 (3) 1 of the Act;

2. Propriety of performance systems for inspection and supervision of the process and outcomes of research being conducted by the relevant institution under Article 10 (3) 2 of the Act;

3. Propriety of education provided for the researchers and employees of the relevant institution under Article 10 (3) 3 (a) of the Act, and education provided for the members of institutional committees;

4. Establishment of measures for protecting human subjects in a vulnerable position, etc., under Article 10 (3) 3 (b) of the Act, and whether such measures are complied with;

5. Establishment of ethical guidelines for researchers under Article 10 (3) 3 (c) of the Act, and the propriety of such guidelines;

6. Independence of the composition of institutional committees, and the expertise of staff members supporting the operation thereof, both of which are necessary for smooth operation of institutional committees;

7. Whether to prepare standard operation guidelines for institutional committees in relevant institutions, and the propriety of such guidelines;

8. Systems for the management of related records and documents, and the propriety of such systems.

(2) The valid term of certification shall be three years, but may be extended just for one year, depending on the result of evaluation.

(3) Except as provided in this Decree, necessary matters concerning the details of standards for the evaluation and certification of institutional committees; the procedures and methods for evaluation, certification, and certification extension; the designs and indication methods of the certification mark; and other matters related thereto shall be prescribed by Decree of the Ministry of Health and Welfare.

Article 11(Restrictions on frequency of egg collection)

(1) The frequency of egg collection under Article 27 (3) of the Act shall be three times in a lifetime, and eggs shall be collected at an interval of at least six months.

(2) Where there occurred side effects of egg collection, eggs may be re-collected more than six months after the side effects are completely cured.

Article 12 (Rare or incurable diseases for which research on residual embryos is conducted)

(1) "Rare or incurable diseases specified by Presidential Decree" in Article 29 (1) 2 of the Act means the following: <Amended on Feb. 28, 2017>

1. Rare diseases:

(a) Multiple sclerosis, Huntington's disease, hereditary ataxia, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, cerebral palsy, and spinal cord injury;

(b) Congenital immunodeficiency syndromes, aplastic anemia, and leukemia;

(c) Osteochondrodysplasia;

(d) Adrenoleukodystrophy, Metachromatic Leukodystrophy, and Krabbe's disease;

2. Incurable diseases:

(a) Myocardial infarction;

(b) Liver cirrhosis;

(c) Parkinson's disease, stroke, Alzheimer’s disease, and optic nerve damage;

(d) Diabetes mellitus;

(e) Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.

(2) "Research specified by Presidential Decree" in Article 29 (1) 3 of the Act means research determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Health and Welfare, after deliberation by the National Committee, which is deemed necessary for research on residual embryos for public health.

Article 13 (Matters regarding approval of changes to embryo research plan)

1. The purposes of or period for research;

2. The quantity of residual embryos necessary for research;

3. The medical institution producing embryos which provides residual embryos;

4. The person in charge of research.

Article 14 (Restrictions on somatic-cell nuclear transplantation or parthenogenesis)

(1) Research permitted to conduct somatic-cell nuclear transplantation or parthenogenesis pursuant to Article 31 (2) of the Act shall meet all the following requirements: <Amended on Jul. 2, 2019>

1. Research for producing somatic-cell cloning embryos or parthenogenesis embryos and establishing embryonic stem cell lines by using them;

2. Research using any of the following eggs:

(a) Eggs cryopreserved for producing embryos, intended to be disposed of due to any reason, such as success in pregnancy;

(b) Immature eggs or abnormal eggs, intended to be disposed of because there is no plan to produce embryos;

(c) Eggs used for in vitro fertilization, intended to be disposed of due to failure in fertilization or abandonment of fertilization;

(d) Eggs collected for medical treatment of infertility, intended to be disposed of because there is no appropriate donee;

(e) Eggs collected from removed ovaries;

3. Research using somatic-cell cloning embryos or parthenogenesis embryos in vitro before the primitive streak appears during embryonic development.

(2) With intent to provide residual eggs to persons planning to conduct research under paragraph (1), embryo-producing medical institutions shall obtain written consent from their donors; provided, where with intent to provide eggs under paragraph (1) 2 (e), the practitioners collecting the relevant eggs shall obtain written consent from their donors.

Article 15 (Approval of changes to embryonic stem cell lines research plan)

1. The purposes of or period for research;

2. The person in charge of research;

3. Matters affecting the scientific and ethical validity of research plans using embryonic stem cell lines.

Article 16 (Permission for establishment of human material banks)

(1) A person who intends to obtain permission for establishment of a Human Material Bank pursuant to Article 41 (1) of the Act shall be equipped with facilities, equipment, and human resources specified in Appendix 1.

(2) A person who intends to obtain permission for establishment of a Human Material Bank shall, as prescribed by Decree of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, submit a written application for permission for establishment of a Human Material Bank to the Minister of Health and Welfare, along with documents determined by said Ordinance.

(3) Where the Minister of Health of Welfare intends to grant permission for establishment of a Human Material Bank, he or she shall issue a certificate of permission to the applicant, as prescribed by Decree of the Ministry of Health and Welfare.

Article 17 (Changes subject to reporting by human material banks)

1. The location of the Human Material Bank;

2. The head of the institution;

3. The name of the institution;

4. The facilities, apparatus, and human resources of the Human Material Bank.

Article 18 (Changes subject to reporting by gene therapy institutions)

1. The location of the gene therapy institution;

2. The head of the institution;

3. The name of the institution;

4. The diseases or such therapy items to which gene therapies are subjected.

Article 19 (Changes subject to reporting by genetic testing institutions)

1. The location of the genetic testing institution;

2. The head of the institution;

3. The name of the institution;

4. The purpose of a genetic test;

4-2. Genetic test items by purpose of genetic testing;

5. The facilities and human resources of the genetic testing institution.

Article 20 (Prohibited or restricted genetic tests)

Article 21 (Genetic tests for embryos or fetuses)

Article 22 (Imposition and collection of penalty surcharges)

(1) Where the Minister of Health and Welfare intends to impose a penalty surcharge pursuant to Article 58 (1) of the Act, he or she shall give written notice of the payment of the penalty surcharge specifying the type of violation involved and the amount of such surcharge.

(2) A person who has been given notice pursuant to paragraph (1) shall pay the penalty surcharge to the collecting agency determined by the Minister of Health and Welfare within 20 days from the date of receipt of the notice. <Amended on Dec. 12, 2023>

(3) Upon receiving penalty surcharges pursuant to paragraph (2), the collecting agency shall issue the receipts to the payers, and shall notify the Minister of Health and Welfare of the fact of receiving the penalty surcharges without delay.

Article 23 (Subsidies from National treasury)

1. Institutions or organizations performing activities of research or education on securing of bioethics and safety;

2. Bioethics policy research centers designated pursuant to Article 6 (1) of the Act;

3. Employees of any institution or organization referred to in subparagraph 1, who have performed research and education activities in any bioethics-related field for at least five years.

Article 24 (Delegation and entrustment of authority)

(1) The Minister of Health and Welfare shall delegate the following authority to the head of the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention pursuant to Article 61 (1) of the Act: <Amended on Sep. 11, 2020; Dec. 28, 2021>

1. Deleted; <Sep. 11, 2020>

2. Designation of embryo-producing medical institutions under Article 22 (1) of the Act, acceptance of reports on any changed matters under paragraph (4) of that Article, acceptance of reports on suspension or closure of business operations of such medical institutions under paragraph (5) of that Article, and transfer of embryonic or reproductive cells and relevant documents in custody under paragraph (6) of that Article;

3. Registration of embryo research institutes under Article 29 (2) of the Act, and acceptance of reports on closure of business operations under paragraph (3) of said Article;

4. Registration of research institutes for somatic-cell cloning embryos, etc. under Article 31 (3) of the Act;

5. Registration of embryonic stem cell lines under Article 33 (1) of the Act;

6. Receipt of reports on the current status concerning provision of embryonic stem cell lines under Article 34 (2) of the Act;

7. Receipt of reports on details of approval for use of embryonic stem cell lines or reports on details of approval for change thereof under Article 35 (3) of the Act;

8. Permission for Human Material Banks under Article 41 (1) of the Act, and acceptance of reports on the change or on suspension or closure of business operations under paragraph (3) of said Article;

9. Acceptance of reports or reports on change made by gene therapy institutions under Article 48 (2) of the Act;

10. Acceptance of a report or report on change from a genetic testing institution under Article 49 (3) of the Act, acceptance of a report on suspension or closure of business under paragraph (4) of that Article, ex officio cancellation of matters reported under Article 49 (5) of that Article (6), request for information on whether a business is closed under the former part of Article 49 (6) of the Act;

11. Orders, other necessary measures, entry for inspection, inquiries, or collection under Article 54 of the Act;

12. Orders for disposal under Article 55 (1) of the Act;

13. Orders for improvement of facilities or orders for prohibition of use of facilities under Article 55 (2) of the Act;

14. Orders for revocation of registration, etc., or orders for suspension of operation under Article 56 of the Act;

15. Holding hearings pursuant to Article 57 of the Act;

16. Imposing and collecting penalty surcharges under Article 58 of the Act;

17. Collecting fees under Article 59 of the Act.

(2) The Minister of Health and Welfare shall entrust the following business affairs to an institution or organization specified in the relevant subparagraph pursuant to Article 61 (2) of the Act: <Amended on Dec. 28, 2021>

1. Business affairs regarding the acceptance of applications for the registration of institutional committees and the issuance of certificates of registration under Article 10 (4) of the Act: Institutions or organizations designated and publicly notified by the Minister of Health and Welfare in recognition of their expertise in the business affairs regarding the acceptance of applications for the registration of institutional committees, etc. from among non-profit corporations under Article 32 of the Civil Act;

2. Business affairs regarding education on the members of institutional committees under Article 13 (1) 2 of the Act: Institutions or organizations deemed to have expertise in business affairs of education on the members of institutional committees, and designated and publicly notified by the Minister of Health and Welfare, from among non-profit corporations under Article 32 of the Civil Act;

3. Business affairs regarding the evaluation and certification review of institutional committees and the publication of the results thereof under Article 14 (1) and (2) of the Act: Institutions or organizations designated and publicly notified by the Minister of Health and Welfare in recognition of their expertise in the business affairs of evaluation and certification review of institutional committees, from among non-profit corporations under Article 32 of the Civil Act;

4. Business affairs regarding the evaluation of proficiency in genetic testing under Article 49-2 (1) of the Act: Institutions or organizations designated and publicly notified by the Minister of Health and Welfare in recognition of their expertise in the business of evaluating proficiency in genetic testing, from among non-profit corporations under Article 32 of the Civil Act;

5. Business affairs regarding the acceptance of certification or recertification of testing capability and the notification of the results thereof under Article 49-2 (2) and (3) of the Act: Institutions or organizations designated and publicly notified by the Minister of Health and Welfare in recognition of their expertise in the business affairs of reviewing certification of testing capability from among non-profit corporations under Article 32 of the Civil Act.

Article 24-2 (Re-examination of regulation)

Article 25 (Standards for imposing administrative fines)

---
Source: https://elaw.klri.re.kr/eng_service/lawViewContent.do?hseq=71872&lang=ENG
Retrieved: 2026-08-10
