FRAMEWORK FOR INVOLVING AND ENGAGING PARTICIPANTS, PATIENTS AND PUBLICS
POL 006/ v1.0: July 2021
Global Alliance for Genomics and Health: FRAMEWORK
FOR INVOLVING AND ENGAGING PARTICIPANTS, PATIENTSAND PUBLICS IN
GENOMICS RESEARCH AND HEALTH IMPLEMENTATION
Preamble
This document is the Global Alliance for Genomics and Health’s (GA4GH’s) Framework for
involving and engaging participants, patients and publics in genomics research and health
implementation (hereafter, Engagement Framework). It recognises that the benefits of genomics
must be global, yet the practices might impact, benefit and harm people and communities in
different ways and builds on the mission of the GA4GH, its Framework for Responsible Sharing
of Genomic and Health-Related Data and commitment to Diversity and Inclusion.
I. Context
1. Why is engagement important in genomics?
Genomics is increasingly central to the provision of health care. To ensure alignment with social
expectations and values with the use of genomics, all who work in this area need to consider the
interests and concerns of those who choose to give their genomic data, or who are impacted in
other ways by genomics: (1) participants of studies that inform scientific development in
genomics, (2) patients who may be directly affected by genomics science, and (3) members of
the public globally. This is best done by involving and engaging with those participants, patients,
and publics.
2. What are the benefits of involving and engaging participants, patients, and publics?
Involvement and engagement practices, done well, can enhance trust, support understanding of
diversity and the impact of research, increase the value, relevance and quality of genomics and
support societal alignment over the life course of genomics research and implementation.
Involvement and engagement in genomics can foster greater fairness and justice.
● Trust: Researchers and clinicians depend on people providing large amounts of personal
data. While transparency in how personal data is used is important, transparency of how
and to what extent participants, patients and publics will be involved, can support the
building of trustworthy relationships - that is, it can lead to gaining the trust of peopleFRAMEWORK FOR INVOLVING AND ENGAGING PARTICIPANTS, PATIENTS AND PUBLICS
whose data is being investigated. Such relationships of trust may facilitate people
providing their data, and so engagement can be a way to help ensure accountability and
transparency in science especially, but not exclusively, where activities are publicly
funded.
● Collaboration: Genomics is a collective endeavour, bringing together professionals from
many disciplines as well as participant, patient and public stakeholders from all walks of
life. Improved collaboration across these different groups allows for the identification of
new research and clinical priorities.
● Diversity: Genomics research and clinical practices are most effective when they capture
data from people across the widest possible demographic and geographic backgrounds.
● Impact: Depending on the project’s design, genomics can reveal significant study results
and information about individuals and their families. It can also tell us about unrelated
people who are part of the same community. Not all such information is welcome, and
stakeholders may not be affected by, or respond to, this information in the same way.
Engagement will help to identify potential positive and negative impacts at both the
individual and community level.
● Value: Engagement with participants, patients and publics stakeholders on research and
clinical care can leverage real-world evidence to maximise the utility and outputs of
genomic information and practices. Engagement can help create additional value within
projects through closer alignment of professional objectives to participant, patient and
public interests and concerns. Such added value can in turn be made apparent through
systematic evaluation of the participant, patient and public involvement and engagement
process. What are the Engagement Framework’s key components?
● Relevance: Participant, patient and public stakeholders have experience which gives them
unique knowledge and expertise of the potential impact of genomics in their lives. They
are well placed to help shape genomics research and transform clinical work. Involving
them in genomics initiatives ensures that genomics research is relevant to those impacted
by its findings.
● Quality: Involving participant, patient and public stakeholders in research can improve
not only the relevance and impact of genomics, but the quality and quantity of data
collected. Better data means better science, which in turn enriches the experience of
genomics for everyone involved.
● Longitudinality: Genomic analysis produces new knowledge long after a genome has
been collected and sequenced. Ongoing engagement with participant, patient and public
stakeholders as knowledge is generated (after initial data collection and sequencing) is
important to see whether the findings and the knowledge are acceptable. As new genomic
technologies continue to emerge, the knowledge and technologies should be explored
with different participant, patient and public stakeholders.FRAMEWORK FOR INVOLVING AND ENGAGING PARTICIPANTS, PATIENTS AND PUBLICS
3. Framework Genesis and Purpose
This Engagement Framework is for all those involved in genomics activities across different GA4GH
initiatives and projects, who are interested in engaging with different stakeholders around genomics
and data sharing. It might also be of interest to the broader genomics communities outside of
GA4GH, who are interested in public engagement. The Engagement Framework is underpinned by
principles of fairness and justice.
The Engagement Framework acknowledges the importance of reflexivity, thinking deeply, about
the purposes and strategies of engagement. Such reflexivity aims to recognise the diverse
demographic and geographic backgrounds in genomics engagement. Reflexive approaches also
recognise the importance of evaluating engagement strategy/strategies to enhance learning and
future work.
This Engagement Framework was collaboratively developed with stakeholders and members of the
GA4GH community1, drawing on knowledge and expertise on engagement from within GA4GH
especially from its driver projects and the Genomics in Health Implementation Forum (GHIF), the
Your DNA Your Say study, and from other collaborators interested in genomics and engagement. A
range of engagement activities undertaken by driver projects and initiatives within the GHIF (GHIF 
and Driver Projects Resource Catalogue) illustrate some of the breadth of engagement activities 
alreadybeing undertaken.
4. How to use the Engagement Framework
The Engagement Framework is intended to support those working in genomics research and medicine
to reflexively approach participant, patient and public involvement and engagement work. The
Engagement Framework enables consideration of the aims and purposes of engagement, and
reflection on the strengths, limitations and/or likely outcomes and impacts of various approaches
that engagement might bring. It does this by providing a series of reflexive questions for those
developing involvement and engagement plans/activities. These questions explore how involvement
and engagement can reflect different participant, patient and public stakeholders’ demographics and
geographies.
The Engagement Framework does not promote a singular understanding or approach to engagement.
Nor does it rehearse the benefits and limits of particular forms of involvement and engagement as
this is ably done elsewhere REFS.
1 Please see the Acknowledgements section.FRAMEWORK FOR INVOLVING AND ENGAGING PARTICIPANTS, PATIENTS AND PUBLICS
To guide genomics activities towards core GA4GH values and principles four themes are central to
participant, patient and public stakeholder engagement.
• Fairness
• Context
• Heterogeneity
• Recognising tensions and conflict
Section II outlines the key considerations for reflexively developing involvement and engagement
strategies. It provides a definition of each theme and proposes reflexive questions to guide readers
of the Engagement Framework through the process of thinking critically about engagement work
and considering how to choose an approach best suited to their project. Although the themes are
discussed individually, in practice, each impacts the application of the others. As such, the themes
are meant to be read as complementary rather than standalone. Section III directs the reader to
engagement methods resources and highlights the importance of evaluation and learning from
involvement and engagement activities. Sections IV to VIII provide a conclusion, practical
information about the Framework, and points to available resources.
II. Developing engagement reflexively
1. Fairness
Incorporating participant, patient and public stakeholder perspectives and experiences into genomic
research and health implementation is essential for scientific and ethical reasons. Fairness ensures
that research and healthcare are undertaken responsibly and do not produce inequity or exacerbate
inequalities that people already face. Management of genomic data must now commonly adhere to
FAIR principles (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reproducible) (Wilkinson et al., 2016), but
trying to achieve those principles may cause inequities and inequalities. The Engagement
Framework therefore argues that all genomic activities must aim to be equitable and researchers
responsible to their communities. This aim for equity and responsibility can lead to fairness as it
encourages listening to and incorporating diverse participant, patient and public stakeholder voices
(Fricker, 2007; Kaye et al., 2018; Pratt & Hyder, 2016). Considering society means re-evaluating
what being fair from participant, patient and public perspectives may look like. This ensures that:
(1) impacts on people – individually or collectively – are considered; (2) power differentials
between professionals and non-professionals are considered and rebalanced where possible; and (3)
different perspectives are considered in relation to who asks the questions and who answers them.
For each of these points, how stakeholders might benefit or whether they have a say in those matters
are important additional issues to consider. To this end, the CARE Principles for Indigenous dataFRAMEWORK FOR INVOLVING AND ENGAGING PARTICIPANTS, PATIENTS AND PUBLICS
governance are a good resource that can help projects think further about involvement and
engagement.
Reflexive questions to enable fairness-sensitive engagement:
• What is the purpose of the activity I choose? What do I want to achieve?
• What is the best way to achieve that purpose (strategies, methods/activities and
practice)?
• How am I defining my stakeholder groups?
• Why do I want to engage this stakeholder group? Why choose them rather than another group of
stakeholders?
• How inclusive is this stakeholder group?
• What promises have been made to invite, engage and involve that audience? Are they
achievable?
• How will the chosen stakeholders be involved in the project pathway?
• When is the ideal time to involve different people?
• What might different audiences think of the results of the project/activity?
• Could the way a stakeholder group, research question/purpose or activity is defined cause or
reproduce:
• misconceptions, stigma, oppression, etc?
• inequalities?
2. Context
The context in which an activity occurs includes the range of circumstances under which research or
health implementation takes place. Context reflects many different elements such as a genomic
project’s stage of development, its connection to other projects, the genomic/health condition in
question, where the project’s activities are conducted, and potential project funding priorities.
Context also evolves as priorities and people change over time and so will drive decisions on who is
involved in engagement. Because of this, it is important to think about how solutions in one set of
circumstances may cause unwanted or unexpected results in another. These circumstances, and
therefore the contexts they occur in, shape engagement work by influencing what is needed, what is
possible, what is acceptable and what is achievable. Good engagement practices will involve
regularly adapting strategies to ensure that the purpose of engaging stakeholders aligns with the
context being considered.
Reflexive questions to support context-sensitive engagement:
• What is the context of the initiative?
• In this context, whose perspective is being championed by the engagement activity?
• Could a different perspective provide more benefit or value to everyone involved?FRAMEWORK FOR INVOLVING AND ENGAGING PARTICIPANTS, PATIENTS AND PUBLICS
• Is the engagement activity in this context a sustainable solution?
• As the project evolves, is the same engagement activity with the same stakeholders
sufficient or does something need to change?
• Is the purpose of pursuing this specific engagement, in this context, enough to ensure
fairness to all involved?
3. Heterogeneity
Where context refers to circumstances, heterogeneity refers to the diversity and inclusivity among
and within the groups of people involved in a project and its subsequent engagement work. Like
considerations of context, heterogeneity acknowledges that the nature and scope of engagement
may need to be tailored to both differences and similarities among people within specific settings. A
single project might use one or more engagement strategies1at different times and with different
people. This way, engagement can involve diverse stakeholders or achieve different sets of
outcomes.
participant, patient and public stakeholders and institutions bring unique experiences, knowledge
and values. It is useful for the person/team choosing the engagement strategy to remember that none
of these groups are the same, and not to expect the same outcomes out of engagement practices.
Being open to potential differences between and within groups allows those undertaking
engagement work to explore a diversity of potential engagement activities before deciding on
specific strategies.
Reflexive questions to support heterogeneity-sensitive engagement:
• How can multiple perspectives be heard and incorporated into genomics initiatives?
• Are there potential perspectives not being heard?
• What does diversity look like? Why do you want to pursue it?
• How can these differences shape the purpose of the engagement overall?
• How can they shape the purpose of the engagement from the time a decision to
undertake engagement is?
• What decisions around engagement in the project have been taken before and what might
need to be changed?
• What will be the potential impact on people’s lives?
4. Recognising tensions and conflict
Genomics initiatives can create both excitement and anxiety. These can lead to tensions, and, on
occasion, disagreements between stakeholders. The central aim of engagement - to bring different
perspectives together - inevitably draws attention to differences in opinions, values and beliefsFRAMEWORK FOR INVOLVING AND ENGAGING PARTICIPANTS, PATIENTS AND PUBLICS
which may be described or experienced as tensions or conflict. All stakeholders in genomics should
be given opportunities to acknowledge and question one another without prejudice or penalty.
Tensions, even disagreements, can indicate when people may not be willing to modify or change
their views. These should not be seen as damaging or a sign of failure, as they present opportunities
for dialogue where there is a mutual desire to achieve an outcome. Transparent engagement
processes can offer a way to address tensions and stakeholders must be supported and able to
highlight areas of concern which may be leading to tensions, differences and conflicts. When
professionals are open to exploring why participant, patient and public stakeholders might be
responding in a particular way, such openness can promote better understanding of what causes
tensions and can promote fairness in how professionals respond.
Tensions can be present at the start of a project or emerge over time. Management of tensions may
not be required (or appear to be required) at the time, but an awareness of those tensions can help to
explore different viewpoints early in the engagement process. A transparent process therefore helps
stakeholders evaluate whether their concerns have been dealt with appropriately or not. Thus,
providing time to discover differences in experience, knowledge and values, which may necessitate
difficult discussions, may reduce the chances of engagement becoming unproductive or leading to
engagement itself being seen as a tick-box exercise.
Good practice means that project leaders take responsibility for coming up with acceptable
approaches to manage or resolve tensions. Understanding the experiences and potential worries of
participant, patient and public stakeholders allows genomic researchers and health care
professionals to adapt their practices to specific communities. One key approach includes having a
good communication strategy. However, communication alone is sometimes only one element of
dealing with tensions or conflict. When communication focusses only on one-directional
information flows instead of dialogue and feedback, engagement may not be very effective.
Achieving good communication means listening with intent to the different views that stakeholders
may hold. This approach to communication can be useful for resolving conflict. Good
communication is therefore fundamental for establishing respectful, sustainable relationships thus
requires committing to listening with the intent to create action (if required), rather than listening for
its own sake. Giving people regular opportunities to express their views and acting on those views is
important as it can lead to improved outcomes for all people involved. Additionally, project leaders
should be willing to seek independent support, if needed, to resolve tensions and to change the
direction of their projects in response to participant, patient and public stakeholder concerns.
Engagement addressing tensions/conflict considers the following questions:
• How can the initiative support better engagement between stakeholders so that it avoids
long-term damage and loss of trust?FRAMEWORK FOR INVOLVING AND ENGAGING PARTICIPANTS, PATIENTS AND PUBLICS
• How are activities, intentions and findings/outcomes being communicated in ways that
encourage diverse feedback?
• What might be a source or cause of tension?
o Who is responsible for managing or responding to that tension?
o How could responses to people’s concerns or differences of opinion avoid blame,
shame, and stigma, and instead, create better outcomes for all?
• How can different perspectives work together constructively?
• How are tensions and conflicts resolved and managed at different levels and times in the
project?
o How will differing or conflicting perspectives be accommodated and accounted
for?
• How do researchers show they are listening and responding to different perspectives?
III Engaging Effectively
Having considered the key components and questions above, the next steps when thinking about, or
choosing, an engagement approach is to align the purpose of the engagement with the approach(es)
chosen. There is a wealth of information about the various engagement activities the GA4GH GHIF
and driver projects are undertaking (details are available in the GA4GH Engagement resource
catalogue1).
As part of the process of considering engagement approaches, we also suggest building in time and
resources to evaluate those approaches. In so doing, the value of engagement can be considered in
view of the intended aims and outcomes of the project. It is desirable to evaluate engagement
practices against project aims and outcome goals as an ongoing process both during and after the
project. Outcomes themselves can additionally be evaluated against the aims and reasons of
conducting engagement. Assessing outcomes of engagement activities can be done quantitatively or
qualitatively (Russell et al., 2020). The potential ways of conducting evaluations of engagement are
not covered in the Engagement Framework, but models such as STARDiT, and resources provided
by INVOLVE, Consumer and Community Involvement Program, Imperial College London's public
involvement resource, National Institute for Health Research and the International Association for
Public Participation, and others, offer specific approaches to evaluating engagement that might be
useful. Considering the strengths and limitations of each engagement activity (i.e. what it can and
cannot do), will better equip those running such activities to evaluate whether their chosen approach
was fit for the purpose or achieved what they had intended.
The type and impact of engagement, the spectrum of strategies, and the level of interaction between
different groups or people therefore forms a complex landscape of strategies and outcomes. Despite
this complexity, the underlying principles of fairness and justice must remain of central importance.FRAMEWORK FOR INVOLVING AND ENGAGING PARTICIPANTS, PATIENTS AND PUBLICS
Evaluating different approaches to engagement
The following questions can also be useful to support the analysis of the strengths and limitations of
the different strategies of an engagement approach. These questions can guide decisions about
which forms of engagement to use and can help ensure these align with the overall aims of the
project:
• How will I assess the outcome of the strategy or engagement activity?
• Does the choice of engagement activity support the context?
• What are the limitations of the activity chosen - what can it do and what can it not do?
• Is the chosen activity appropriate to the purpose of the research and the resources available?
• Are the outcomes of the activity in line with the purpose of engagement?
• How might the activities or outcomes have been different with or without participant, patient
and public involvement and engagement?
IV Conclusion
The four key components in the Engagement Framework – Fairness, Context, Heterogeneity and
Recognising tensions and conflict – provide a framework to assist those involved in genomics to use
to reflect on and consider the strengths and limitations of the engagement decisions they make for
their initiatives. These can include the strategies selected, the participant, patient and public
stakeholders chosen, and the anticipated outcomes. Trying to define fair outputs and participation in
such situations are important ethical discussions that are out of the scope of the Engagement
Framework. However, as multiple stakeholders have diverse expectations, working through some of
the many issues and questions we have raised, can help to take those views into account when
designing appropriate engagement approaches requires. By considering the strengths and limitations
of what may be achieved by different approaches to engagement, it becomes possible to evaluate
whether engagement work is achieving its intended purpose, and to identify where it may be further
improved.
Finally, in the spirit of promoting and using diversity to improve genomics initiatives, we encourage
those involved in genomics to always think about the underlying principles of fairness and justice
and maintain a reflexive orientation by coming back to the question:
● What would involvement and engagement look like if a different method had been used
or a different group had been approached?FRAMEWORK FOR INVOLVING AND ENGAGING PARTICIPANTS, PATIENTS AND PUBLICS
V Implementation Mechanisms and Amendments
Attention should be paid to the interrelation of the Engagement Framework with other GA4GH
guidance (e.g.,Consent Policy, Privacy and Security Policy, Security Infrastructure).
Any stakeholder adhering to the Engagement Framework may propose one or more amendments to
the present Engagement Framework by communicating the amendments to the GA4GH’s
Regulatory and Ethics Work Stream (REWS). The REWS shall publicly circulate such amendments
for comments and possible inclusion in the Engagement Framework.
The REWS, in collaboration with biomedical, patient advocacy, and ethical and policy
organizations and committees, will track the adoption of the Engagement Framework and its
application. It will also routinely review its provisions, be aware of advances in basic research and
technology, and ethical and legal developments, and attempt to ensure that the Engagement
Framework is fit for purpose.
VI Acknowledgements
Chairs: Madeleine Murtagh (University of Glasgow), Clara Gaff (Melbourne Genomics Health 
Alliance)
Coordinator: Mavis Machirori (Ada Lovelace Institute)
Contributors: Mwenza Blell (Newcastle University), Jantina de Vries (University of Cape 
Town), Megan Doerr (Sage Bionetworks), Edward Dove (University of Edinbrugh), Audrey 
Duncanson (Wellcome Trust), Dean Hartley (Autism Speaks), Rachele Hendricks-Sturrup (DukeMargolis Center for Health Policy), Calvin WL Ho (University of Hong Kong), Amber Johns
(Garvan Institute of Medical Research), Yann Joly (Centre of Genomics and Policy, McGill), 
KazutoKato (GEM-Japan), Keiko Katsui (Japan Agency for Medical Research), Judit Kumuthini
(Centre for Proteomic and Genomic Research, Cape Town), Fiona Maleady-Crowe (Genomics 
England), Mogomotsi Matshaba (Botswana-Baylor Children’s Clinical Centre of Excellence, 
H3Africa), Anna Middleton (Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute), Richard Milne (Wellcome Trust 
Sanger Institute), Joel Minion (University of Calgary), Stephanie Mulrine (Newcastle University), 
Christine Patch (Genomics England), Rosalyn Ryan (Bicgen Inc.), William Viney (Goldsmiths, 
University of London), Jillian Hastings Ward (Genomics England Participant Panel).
We would also like to wholeheartedly thank the GA4GH Secretariat for their support and expertise.
We thank the external reviewers, for reading and commenting on the document.
We acknowledge the funding support from the following organisations: METADAC MRC, ESRC,
Wellcome Grant Numbers MR/N01104X/1 and ES/S008349/1 EUCAN-Connect EU H2020
Grant Agreement No 824989. Their funding provided the time and resources for Mavis Machirori to
coordinate this work.FRAMEWORK FOR INVOLVING AND ENGAGING PARTICIPANTS, PATIENTS AND PUBLICS
VII Engagement resources
GA4GH Resources
GA4GH Framework for Responsible Sharing of Genomic and Health-related Data
GA4GH Your DNA, Your Say (Participant Values Survey) and Middleton et al., (2020)
GA4GH Consent Policy
GHIF and Driver Projects Resource Catalogue
External Resources
Consumer and Community Involvement Program: https://cciprogram.org/researcher-services/types-ofcommunity-involvement/
GIDA – Global Indigenous Data Alliance. Care Principles of Indigenous data governance: https://www.gidaglobal.org/care
H3Africa – CEBioGen. Developing best practices of community engagement for genomics and biobanking
in Africa: https://h3africa.org/index.php/developing-best-practices-of-community-engagement-for-genomicsand-biobanking-in-africa-cebiogen/
International Association for Public Participation (www.iap2.org):
https://cdn.ymaws.com/www.iap2.org/resource/resmgr/pillars/Spectrum_8.5x11_Print.pdf
INVOLVE 2015: https://www.invo.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/Values-Principles-frameworkJan2016.pdf
National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) School for Primary Care Research -
https://www.spcr.nihr.ac.uk/PPI/what-is-patient-and-public-involvement-and-engagement
OmicsXchange Podcast, Episode 9 (27 August 2020) The importance of diverse perspectives in standards
development: An interview with Laura Paglione. https://www.ga4gh.org/news/omicsxchange-podcastepisode-9-the-importance-of-diverse-perspectives-in-standards-development-an-interview-with-laurapaglione/
MESH community engagement network: https://mesh.tghn.org
Public involvement – Imperial College London Patient Experience Research Centre
https://www.imperial.ac.uk/patient-experience-research-centre/ppi/
STARDIT: Standardised Data on Initiatives: Alpha Version. Nunn, J. S., Shafee, T., Chang, S., Stephens, R.,
Elliott, J., Oliver, S., … Orr, N. (2019, September 20). https://doi.org/10.31219/osf.io/5q47hFRAMEWORK FOR INVOLVING AND ENGAGING PARTICIPANTS, PATIENTS AND PUBLICS
VIII References
Appiah, B. (2015). Challenges and opportunities of community engagement. The Trust Project - Sci
Dev Net. https://www.scidev.net/sub-saharan-africa/health/feature/community-cooperationhealth-research-kemri.html
Public engagement in setting priorities in health care. Canadian Medical Association Journal,
179(1), 15–18. https://doi.org/10.1503/cmaj.071656
Cox, S. M., Kazubowski-Houston, M., & Nisker, J. (2009). Genetics on stage: Public engagement in
health Policy development on preimplantation genetic diagnosis. Social Science and Medicine,
68(8), 1472–1480. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.01.044
Folayan, M. O., & Peterson, K. (2020). HIV prevention clinical trials’ community engagement
guidelines: inequality, and ethical conflicts. Global Bioethics, 31(1), 47–66.
https://doi.org/10.1080/11287462.2020.1773061
Fricker, M. (2007). Epistemic Injustice. Oxford University Press.
https://doi.org/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780198237907.001.0001
Greenhalgh, T., Hinton, L., Finlay, T., Macfarlane, A., Fahy, N., Clyde, B., & Chant, A. (2019).
Frameworks for supporting patient and public involvement in research: Systematic review and
co-design pilot. Health Expectations, 22(4), 785–801. https://doi.org/10.1111/hex.12888
H3Africa. (n.d.). Community engagement in biobanking. H3Africa.
Hamadache, D., & Polly, C. (n.d.). Module 6: Community engagement. www.who.int/hiv/pub/6.pdf
Hobbs, G., & Tully, M. P. (2020). Realist evaluation of public engagement and involvement in dataintensive health research. Research Involvement and Engagement, 6(1), 1–13.
https://doi.org/10.1186/s40900-020-00215-4
Kaye, J., Terry, S. F., Juengst, E., Coy, S., Harris, J. R., Chalmers, D., Dove, E. S., Budin-Ljøsne, I.,
Adebamowo, C., Ogbe, E., Bezuidenhout, L., Morrison, M., Minion, J. T., Murtagh, M. J.,
Minari, J., Teare, H., Isasi, R., Kato, K., Rial-Sebbag, E., … Cambon-Thomsen, A. (2018).
Including all voices in international datasharing governance. Human Genomics, 12(1), 18–23.
https://doi.org/10.1186/s40246-018-0143-9
Middleton, A., Milne, R., Almarri, M. A., Anwer, S., Atutornu, J., Baranova, E. E., Bevan, P.,
Cerezo, M., Cong, Y., Critchley, C., Fernow, J., Goodhand, P., Hasan, Q., Hibino, A.,
Houeland, G., Howard, H. C., Hussain, S. Z., Malmgren, C. I., Izhevskaya, V. L., … Morley,
K. I. (2020). Global Public Perceptions of Genomic Data Sharing: What Shapes the Willingness
to Donate DNA and Health Data? American Journal of Human Genetics, 107(4), 743–752.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2020.08.023
O’Mara-Eves, A., Brunton, G., Oliver, S., Kavanagh, J., Jamal, F., & Thomas, J. (2015). The
effectiveness of community engagement in public health interventions for disadvantagedFRAMEWORK FOR INVOLVING AND ENGAGING PARTICIPANTS, PATIENTS AND PUBLICS
groups: A meta-analysis. BMC Public Health, 15(1), 1–23. https://doi.org/10.1186/s12889-015-
1352-y
Pratt, B., & Hyder, A. A. (2016). Governance of Transnational Global Health Research Consortia
and Health Equity. The American Journal of Bioethics, 16(10), 29–45.
https://doi.org/10.1080/15265161.2016.1214304
Russell, J., Fudge, N., & Greenhalgh, T. (2020). The impact of public involvement in health
research: what are we measuring? Why are we measuring it? Should we stop measuring it?
Research Involvement and Engagement, 6(1), 63. https://doi.org/10.1186/s40900-020-00239-w
Wilkinson, M. D., Dumontier, M., Aalbersberg, Ij. J., Appleton, G., Axton, M., Baak, A., Blomberg,
N., Boiten, J. W., da Silva Santos, L. B., Bourne, P. E., Bouwman, J., Brookes, A. J., Clark, T.,
Crosas, M., Dillo, I., Dumon, O., Edmunds, S., Evelo, C. T., Finkers, R., … Mons, B. (2016).
Comment: The FAIR Guiding Principles for scientific data management and stewardship.
Scientific Data, 3(160018), 1–9. https://doi.org/10.1038/sdata.2016.18ENGAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
Engagement Framework Revision History
Policy Number/Version Date Effective Summary of Revisions
006 July 2021 Original Document

---
Source: https://www.ga4gh.org/document/engagement-policy-v1/
Retrieved via GA4GH public Google Drive

