GA4GH Data Sharing Lexicon
Background
Over the last two decades, advances in genetic and genomic technologies and their
application are helping enable advances in human health. However, these potential benefits
risk being undermined by challenges to genomic data sharing, which result in data remaining
siloed within jurisdictions and disciplines. The GA4GH Data Sharing Lexicon has been
developed in order to promote data sharing by facilitating a shared understanding of the terms
which underpin the practice of data sharing for health and research purposes.This lexicon is
intended to be used both by members of the Global Alliance for Genomics and Health
(GA4GH) and researchers and institutions worldwide to promote an international community
dedicated to advancing human health through genomic data.
The standards and policies developed by GA4GH are grounded in the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights and aim to expand genomic data use within a human rights framework,
highlighting that these technologies should be developed and used in ways that are equitable
and responsible. Like other data sharing outputs, this work also builds on the Framework for
Responsible Sharing of Genomic and Health Related-Data to accelerate progress in human
health by establishing a shared global approach to responsible, broad and democratised use of
genomic and related health data.
Purpose and scope
This revised GA4GH Data Sharing Lexicon supports international data sharing by promoting
common/concordant terms within the GA4GH and across jurisdictions, disciplines and
individual providers of health care and research. The scope of this Lexicon includes terms
commonly encountered when sharing data for health or research use, but is not intended as a
substitute for clinical, scientific or technical literature. Since the Lexicon is intended to be as
generalisable as possible across jurisdictions, the terms also do not replicate legal/regulatory
definitions in legal sources.
With these caveats in mind, and given that many of these terms are contested within and
across disciplines, the definitions included in this Lexicon have been selected because they
are accessible and succinct. However, they may not be appropriate for every context of data
sharing.
Process
Where relevant, this lexicon builds on terminology used in GA4GH documents and policies,
the most important of which are:
● The Framework for Responsible Sharing of Genomic and Health-Related Data
● Consent Policy v2
● Privacy and Security Policy v2
● Accountability Policy
It also incorporates terms already in use in existing GA4GH glossaries where these are
relevant and appropriate.
Note to Users of this Lexicon
During the development of this Lexicon, we noted that some terms are related to one another
either because they are used interchangeably when in fact their meanings are subtly different
(e.g. cluster of terms relating to Data Identification), or because they describe sub categories
of an overarching theme/category (e.g. terms describing different types of Consent decision
or Technology). To guide the user we have grouped these related terms into clusters, which
are colour coded for ease of reference:
●
●
●
Acknowledgements
The first version of the GA4GH Data Sharing Lexicon was developed by a working group,
representing a wide spectrum of the law, security, bioethics, and genomics communities
under the auspices of GA4GH’s Regulatory and Ethics Work Stream. This revised version
has been further developed by a small working group, and ratified by the larger GA4GH
Regulatory and Ethics Workstream. We are grateful to members of the internal GA4GH 
group and the external expert group for their time and expertise.
● Internal group: Professor Yann Joly; Professor Dianne Nicol; Dr Diya Uberoi,
Gemma Brown and Alison Hall
● External Expert Group: Professor Ainsley Newson for facilitating collaboration from
the LINEAGE Project,1 Jaime Guidry Auvil, David Bujold and Professor Heidi Beate
Bentzen
 
1 Funding Acknowledgements: “Ethical governance for clinical and genomic data” now known as LINEAGE:
Law, Sociology and Ethics in Data Governance for Genomics, funded by the Commonwealth of Australia,
Medical Research Future Fund, 2021 Genomics Health Futures, Mission Grant, grant MRF2015531.
Data Sharing Lexicon
Term (A-Z) Definition
AI
The use of programming tools to enable machines to perform tasks that
previously required human (or other biological) brainpower to accomplish.
Accountability The obligation to explain and justify conduct.
Aggregate Data
Collated results of genomic data from many individuals included within a
specific dataset.
Anonymization
The irreversible removal or alteration of identifiers from human individual,
population data and associated metadata.
Anonymized Data
Data that have had personal identifiers irreversibly altered or removed so that
individuals are unlikely to be identified, even with additional information.
Anonymous Data Data that are not identifiable when collected.
Attribution
Identifying and/or acknowledging the source or author of an idea or written
material.
Audit
A systematic review of practice to evaluate adherence to applicable laws and
policies.
Big Data
Large and complex datasets typically combining multiple sources of
information that can be analyzed through novel computational methods.
Biobank
An organized collection of human biological material and associated data
which is stored, processed and searchable.
CARE Principles
An acronym summarising principles of data management for indigenous data
governance including to promote Collective benefit, Authority to control,
Responsibility and Ethics.
Clinical Test
A test to predict future disease, make a diagnosis, explain symptoms and
guide clinical care or management.
Clinical Trial
A study involving human participants to investigate the efficacy and/or safety
of one or more medicines, treatments or other therapeutic interventions.
Clinically Significant
Finding
A finding that has the potential to improve [an individual’s] medical
prognosis, care or outcomes.
Cloud Computing
Distributed computing resources accessible over the internet that can include
capabilities for processing and storing data.
Coding/ Pseudonymization The act of replacing an identifier with a code for the purpose of avoiding
direct identification of the participant, except by persons holding the key
linking the code and identifier.
Cohort
A group of individuals identified by common characteristic(s) (e.g.
demographic, exposure, illness).
Confidentiality
The ethical and legal obligation of an individual or organization to safeguard
data by restricting access as authorized by law or by the data donor.
Conflict of Interest
One or more connections or interests (personal, social, financial or
professional) that influence, or could be perceived to influence, professional
integrity and independence.
Consent
Voluntary and informed expression of the will of a person or group, or their
legal representative.*
Controlled/ Managed/
Restricted Access
Access to data that is subject to conditions and/or an approval process.
Conversational AI
A type of artificial intelligence that uses machine learning and other
technologies to simulate human conversation.
Cross-border Data Transfer
The transfer of data between or across two or more independent governing
jurisdictions.
Data Facts, results or observations from which information could be derived.
Data Access Committee
A select group of individuals that review applications requesting access to
sensitive data and authorize use in alignment with defined criteria.
Data Breach The unauthorized collection, access, use, disclosure or release of data.
Data Curation
The process of selecting, annotating, maintaining, archiving and tracking data
and any supporting files, objects, identifiers or metadata.
Data Custodian
An individual who is responsible for the technical environment and database
structure.
Data Destruction
To take all necessary steps to ensure that data are no longer stored or able to
be used.
Data Donor/Provider
An individual whose data have been collected, held, used or shared for
research purposes with their consent.
Data Embargo Defined period of time when data are unavailable for wider access.
Data Harmonization
The process of unifying or aligning certain policies, methodologies and
approaches in order to achieve interoperability.
Data Linkage
The process by which records representing the same entity or individual are
connected across two or more sources of data.
Data Localization
Legal/ ethical rules that aim to keep data within a jurisdiction that governs
such data and efforts to comply with such rules.
Data Privacy
Maintaining data in a manner that ensures security of data files to prevent
identification of data donors and allow their use in accordance with given
consent.
Data Privacy Impact
Assessment
A process designed to evaluate and minimize data privacy risks.
Data Protection Officer
An expert in data protection within an organization who ensures that an
organization applies relevant laws, regulations, and guidelines protecting
individuals’ data.
Data Protections
The set of laws, policies, procedures and technologies that minimize intrusion
into the privacy of individuals and associated populations, uphold
confidentiality, maintain data security and penalize undue intrusions and/or
breaches.
Data Security The protection of the confidentiality, availability and integrity of data.
Data Sharing
Providing access to data to another agency, organization or person for an
agreed purpose.
Data Sovereignty
The right of peoples to exercise ownership over data deriving from them, or
pertaining to their members, knowledge systems, customs or territories,
which is expressed through the creation, collection, access, analysis,
interpretation, management, dissemination and reuse of those data.
Data Steward
An entity responsible for assuring the quality, integrity, use and access
arrangements of data and metadata in a manner that is consistent with
applicable law, institutional policy, individual permissions and the public
good.
Data Subject
An individual, population or cohort whose data has been collected, generated,
held, used or shared.
Data Transfer
Agreement
An agreement between the provider and the recipient of data that describes
conditions of transfer, use and disclosure.
Data Use
Use includes analysis, cleaning, reformatting, combining, or annotating the
data or using the data for model training.
Data User
Individuals or organisations who are authorised to access or use data for an
agreed purpose.
Data Visiting
A form of data sharing in which a user performs analysis on shared data
within the provider’s computing environment, whether through human or
computational agents.
Database
A collection of data and information that are managed and stored in a
systematic way to enable data analyses.
Dataset A collection of data which may be part of a database.
De-identification
The removal or alteration of any direct identifiers that identify an individual
or could, foreseeably, identify an individual in the future.
De-identified Data Information that has had direct identifiers removed.
Disclosure Risk
The chance of private or confidential information being revealed about an
individual.
Dynamic consent A technology platform to enable ongoing engagement by participants.
Encryption
A mechanism of safeguarding stored data or information by making those
data or information unreadable without access to the correct decryption
method.
Ethical Guidelines
Guidance on decision-making based on accepted ethical principles and
practice.
Ethics Review Committee/
IRB/ REC/ REB/ HREC
An independent committee for the ethical review and approval of research
activities.
Exome Sequencing Testing all the protein-coding regions of a person's genome.
FAIR Principles
An acronym summarising foundational principles of good data management
that promote Findability of data, data Access, Interoperability and Reuse.
Federated Data Analysis
A form of data visiting that entails analysis across datasets from multiple
providers without the data leaving each provider's respective computing
environments.
GA4GH The Global Alliance for Genomics and Health.
GA4GH Framework
The GA4GH Framework for Responsible Sharing of Genomic and
Health-Related Data .
Gene A portion of an individual’s DNA.
Gene panels
Simultaneous testing of all genes associated with a particular set of clinical
symptoms (phenotype) or disease.
Generative AI
The use of programming tools to generate new content in response to user
prompts, that is indistinguishable from human-created data.
Genetic Discrimination
An individual or a group being negatively treated, unfairly profiled, or
harmed, relative to the rest of the population, on the basis of actual or
presumed genetic characteristics.
Genetic Test A targeted test that examines a gene.
Genomic Test
A test that explores multiple genes such as gene panels, exome sequencing,
and genome sequencing.
Genotype The genetic make-up of an individual.
Governance
The process of policy making and management that guides and oversees
health care and research in an ethically and legally compliant, consistent and
structured manner.
Health Data
Data relating to the physical or mental wellbeing of an individual.
Identifiable Data
Data that alone or in combination with other data may reasonably be expected
to identify an individual.
Identity and Access
Management
A set of processes and supporting technologies that enable the creation,
maintenance, use, and revocation of digital identity, often based on role.
Incidental Findings
A finding discovered in the course of clinical care or research concerning an
individual, that is beyond the aims of the clinical care or research.
Individual Research Results
A finding discovered in the course of research concerning an individual that
relates to the aims of the research.
Informed Consent
Consent given by a capable data subject (or legal representative) who has
sufficient time, information and support to make an informed decision.
Interoperability
The technologies, processes and standards that allow data to be shared,
accessed and used by multiple users and systems.
Key
A piece of data that an encryption algorithm uses to determine how to
unscramble pseudonymized data.
Legacy Data or
Biospecimens
Data (or biospecimens) previously collected for research or for clinical care,
where new proposed uses may not be documented in a consent form.
Long-read Sequencing
A form of next generation sequencing in which long strands of DNA or RNA
are sequenced without being broken up into smaller pieces.
Machine Learning
A form of AI enabling computers to learn from data and make decisions or
predictions without being explicitly programmed to do so.
Material Transfer Agreement
A binding legal agreement between the provider and the recipient of
materials that describes conditions of transfer, use and disclosure.
Medical/Health Record
A paper or electronic record created in the health care system which contains
medical and health-related information about an individual and is used to
record and support health care for that individual.
Metadata Data about stored data including its properties, history, and versions.
Newborn Screening
Tests of newborn babies to detect and/or identify potential serious health
conditions usually in the absence of clinical symptoms, to inform treatment
or management options.
Newborn Testing
Diagnostic tests of newborn babies to detect signs and symptoms of serious
health conditions.
Next Generation Sequencing
High throughput technologies which use sequencing to identify the order of
nucleotides in entire genomes or targeted regions of DNA or RNA.
Open Data Data that is available and accessible without restriction.
Opt-in consent A consent mechanism where an active choice is required to participate.
Opt-out consent
A consent mechanism where consent is implied unless an active choice is
expressed not to participate.
Organizational members The organizations that are members of the GA4GH.
Personal Data
Data that alone or in combination with other data may identify an individual
without requiring unreasonable identification efforts.
Personalized Medicine
Using an individual’s genetic profile and other factors to guide and enable
tailored/targeted medical decisions and interventions.
Phenotype
An individual's observable traits, which are determined by both genomic
makeup (genotype) and environmental factors.
Polygenic Risk Score
(PRS/PGS)
Estimating a person’s inherited risk of a specific disease by analysing
millions of common genetic variants associated with that condition, together
with other genetic risk factors e.g. genetic ancestry.
Precision Medicine
Using a person’s genes, environment and lifestyle to predict which
intervention or treatment will work best for a particular patient.
Primary Data Data that is generated or collected for a specific purpose or use.
Privacy The right and freedom to control sensitive information about oneself.
Processing
Any operation on data, including collection, storage, use, dissemination and
destruction.
Proportionate/Proportionality
Determining the justification for an action by balancing the objective, means,
methods and potential consequences (including the risks and benefits) of that
action.
Prospective data collection Data that is yet to be collected.
Provenance metadata
Detailed information that documents the origin, history, and lineage of data,
providing a comprehensive record of the data's lifecycle, including where it
originated, how it has been processed or transformed, and where it has been
transferred.
Pseudonymization/Coding
The act of replacing an identifier with a code for the purpose of avoiding
direct identification of the participant, except by persons holding the key
linking the code and identifier.
Pseudonymized Data
Data that may not be readily attributed to a specific data subject without the
use of additional information, technical expertise or resource.
Public Engagement
An inclusive act involving a group of participants, ranging from active
involvement in the development, management or governance of a project, to
the provision of information and raising awareness of a project.
Quality Assurance that data, biospecimens or processes meet specified standards.
Registered Access
Providing access to data contingent on a system of authentication and
self-declaration.
Re-Identification The ability to trace data back to an individual.
Remote Data Interrogation
A restricted type of data visiting where the user can query but not view raw
data from the provider.
Replicability
The act of checking the consistency of results across studies which aim to
answer the same scientific question using different datasets or different
sources for the same data.
Retrospectively Collected
Data
Data already collected for another purpose which may or may not include
data consented for research.
Return of Results
Communication of research data or outcomes to an individual, designated
health care provider, family member, or authorized representative.
Risk
The probability that an event, favorable or adverse, will occur within a
defined time interval.
Safe Haven
A repository in which data are stored and accessed in ways that maintain their
integrity and quality whilst meeting relevant ethical and legal controls on
their use and dissemination.
Secondary Data Data derived from alternate analysis of primary data.
Secondary Findings
Deliberately sought test results that are unrelated to the primary purpose for
testing.
Secondary Use
Existing data which is used for an alternate purpose or by an alternate user
following its primary use, such as clinical data being used for research.
Security
The process of protecting data from unauthorized access, use, change,
disclosure, corruption or destruction.
Security Risk Assessment
An objective analysis of the effectiveness of the security controls that protect
data.
Structured Data
Data that is organised and understandable/ interpretable by humans and
machines.
Supervisory Authority
The public authority responsible for monitoring data privacy, data protection
and data security laws within a given jurisdiction.
Surveillance
The systematic collection, monitoring and dissemination of health data to
assist in planning, implementation and evaluation of a public health or health
research intervention.
Sustainability
The ability to maintain or support a process over time through addressing
economic, environmental and social considerations.
Synthetic Data
Artificially generated data created by algorithms or computer simulations
which mimics real-world data.
Traceability
Verification of an item's history, location or application through documented
records.
Training Data
Data used to train computers/ machine learning models to perform a specified
task.
Transparency
The quality of actions being understood and accountable through data that
have been made detectable and recognizable.
Trusted Research
Environments
Highly secure and controlled computing environments that facilitate remote
access to specified data.
Trusted Third Party
An individual or organization that safeguards access to information linking
individuals to their data and biospecimens.
Trustworthy
Earning the trust of others through demonstrating integrity, honesty,
competence and reliability.
Unstructured Data
Data lacking predefined structure or organisation which are not readily
interpretable by computers or humans.
Validation
Evaluating the performance of a hypothesis, model, test or research finding
using data/interventions not included in training or research.
Variants of Unknown
Significance (VUS)
A genetic variant which has uncertain or unclear links to a health condition
including where insufficient or contradictory evidence of a link exists.
Vulnerable Persons /
Populations
Individuals or groups requiring special consideration, safeguards or
protection because of the likelihood of them being denied individual, social
or communal human rights.
Whole Genome Sequencing
(WGS)
Form of next generation sequencing that reveals the complete DNA make-up
of an organism, enabling better understanding of variations within and
between species.
Withdrawal
The right for an individual to have data about them removed or destroyed or
prevented from being used for research or clinical care.
*see consent tool kit, where there are multiple ways of describing consent.
Clusters of related terms:
- Dynamic Consent
- Informed consent
- Opt-in consent
- Opt-out consent
- Anonymization
- Anonymized data
- Anonymous data
- Coding/Pseudonymization
- Data privacy
- De-identification
9- De-identified data
- Identifiable data
- Identify and Access Management
- Pseudonymization/Coding
- Pseudonymized data
- Reidentification
- AI
- Big Data
- Cloud Computing
- Coding/Pseudonymization
- Conversational AI
- Exome Sequencing
- Generative AI
- Long-read Sequencing
- Machine Learning
- Next Generation Sequencing
- Polygenic Risk Score
- Whole Genome Sequencing
10

---
Source: https://www.ga4gh.org/document/ga4gh-data-sharing-lexicon/
Retrieved via GA4GH public Google Drive
